---
categories: developers
title: Internationalization
---
{% include toc.md %}

# Internationalization
Candlepin uses [gettext-commons](http://code.google.com/p/gettext-commons/) to support internationalization.

Internally, we are using
[zanata](https://fedora.zanata.org/zanata/project/view/candlepin) for
translations. The configuration is controlled by a zanata.xml file located in
the po directory. You will need to set up the zanata-client package.

zanata-client is quite broken in Fedora (often) whenever dependency Java rpms are updated. Instead the authors currently reccommend using the ivy setup outlined [here](https://github.com/zanata/zanata-client-ivy#installing-zanata-cli-ivy-version).

# Workflow
The regular process for updating translations consists of extraction of
resources that should be localized, providing translations, and compilation of
resource bundles.

1. `buildr gettext:extract` will extract all strings in I18n.tr() calls. This
   command will generate a catalogue file (`keys.pot`) in `po` directory.
1. `buildr gettext:merge` will merge the keys from the catalogue file into locale-specific .po files.
1. From the *po* directory, push the key files to zanata: `zanata-cli push --src-dir $PWD --trans-dir $PWD`
1. From the *po* directory, pull down the latest translations from zanata:
   `zanata-cli pull --src-dir $PWD --trans-dir $PWD`

# Other Tips
* use `poedit` (or `vim`, or `emacs`, or some other `WMD`) to provide translations for extracted keys.
* The next build will compile the pot files into java class files in
  `target/generated_source/org/fedoraproject/candlepin/i18n` The file names are
  `Messages_LOCALE.class`
* If you wish to replace the latest po files on the server, use: `zanata-cli
  pull --src-dir $PWD --trans-dir $PWD --import-po` (this is not normally
  required) To import the po files, you need to ensure that you have merged the
  keys as shown above.

## Zanata Client Config
* add a ~/.config/zanata.ini with content like:

  ```
  [servers]
  # "zanata" in this case is just a name for the
  # server
  zanata.url = https://translate.zanata.org/zanata/
  zanata.username =  myfedorausername
  # need to generate on zanata "my profile page"
  zanata.key = cfd50f51cd8ed9876f3f126a7be431bb
  ```

# How To Code With It

## Things of Note.
* `i18n.properties` file determines the name and the package of resource
  bundles.
* When creating an instance of I18n, I18nFactory.READ_PROPERTIES flag is
  required for the property file mentioned above to take effect
* I18nFactory.FALLBACK flag is required during instantiation of I18n if you
  want to see non-translated strings when resource bundle for a specific locale
  is not available. The default behaviour is to throw `MissingResourceException`.
* the default locale is en_US; all strings in this locale will be returned
  unchanged.
* Currently only non-singleton (as in guice scope) resources can use localized
  strings.

## Internal Bits
The Guice `I18nProvider` allows guice to inject instances of I18n into
resource classes (or other non-singleton objects managed by guice). The
provider relies on 'Accept-Language' http header to determine the locale.

## In Code
* Inject I18n into the object of your choice.
* Then (assuming instance variable name is i18n):

  ```
  i18n.tr("goodbye, cruel world.");
   ```
